1. Tar utility doesn't compress files/folders, it archives them.

2. gzip hello1
This compresses the file and you'll be see on 'ls'
hello1.gz

3. gunzip hello2.gz
gzip -d hello2.gz
Both commands uncompresses the .gz file.

4. As you unzip the compressed files, if same name files are present in current location they'll be replaced with ones getting unziped.

5. Can't compress a directory. A directory is always archived.

6. tar -cvf myarchive.tar dir1/ file1 file2 file3
flag description: 
c :create new tar file and write the existing name we are passing here.
v :verbose, show what is going on.
f :user archive file

7. tar -tf myarchive.tar
t :list the contents of an archive.

8. tar -cvzf myarchive.tar.gz dir/ file1 file2 file 3
Flag description:
z :pass it through gzip, which means that it compresses it as well at the same time.

9. tar -xvf myarchive.tar
x :extract files

10. If there a change in the file with name say 'file1'. How to check whether
files are archive are any different then the one present outside (with the same name ofcourse).
 tar -dvf myarchive.tar

This print the file difference to the screen.

11. If you what see the compression information of the .gz files,
gzip -l hello1.gz
This will print the compresion information of the compresses files

12. STAR another archiving utility,
yum install star
star is not installed by default on the system.

13. star -c -f=myarchive.tar dir1/ file1 file2 file3
This will archive the listed directory and the files

14. star -t -f=myarchive.tar
This lists out the contents of myarchive.tar utility.

15. star -x -f=myarchive.tar.gz
x :extract files
This method of extracting the files doesn't overwrite newer data of same file
name on the system.
It provides user some more protection from overwriting files.

16. In case you want to extract only one file from the compresses or archived directory.
star -x -f=myarchive.tar.gz file3
This will extract only the file3.

17. rm -f file1
deletes forcibly without warning
rm -rf dir1
deletes recursively, forcibily, without warning.
rm -f *tar
rm -f *gz
delete anything that end with after * term.


    

